source-git: provide E2E guide (#231)
packit/packit.dev: content/docs/source-git/_index.md

# Source-git documentation

We initiated source-git as an alternative to working in
[dist-git](https://github.com/release-engineering/dist-git). The need was
especially amplified after we realized that many projects already do this. The
problem was that everyone created a workflow and tooling for themselves which
made it really hard to share knowledge and on-board new projects. Our intention
is to create an implementation which is highly configurable, easy to start with
and provides both command-line tooling and a service which is tightly
integrated with GitHub and GitLab.

> > Before you continue reading, we expect you are familiar with [Fedora

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before you continue reading, we assume you are familiar with the [Fedora
```

### Spec file

We are going to answer the elephant in the room right away: "Do we really need to
[have a spec file in our upstream repo or a source-git repo?!]({{< ref "faq#how-can-i-download-rpm-spec-file-if-it-is-not-part-of-upstream-repository" >}})"
No, you don't, though storing the spec file directly in the repository

> will save you a lot of trouble. Alternatively, packit needs to have a way to

Reviewer: What "trouble"? :)

Storing the spec file in the same tree as the source code creates a tight-coupling between the two. This might be something that is wanted or something that is not.

If the spec file is stored next to the source code and it's used for building the package, each build can be traced back to a given commit and so a given (source code, spec file) pair. It is obvious how to find the version of the spec file which was used.

If the spec file is stored some other place, the spec file can be changed without this change being reflected in the history of the source code. So tracing back a build to a given (source code, spec file) pair becomes problematic or would require additional tooling. Maybe this is the trouble you though of? :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Trouble = someone can change the spec file in the other place and suddenly builds would start failing while one would need to go and fix the spec which sits in a different repo. To me this feels like storing setup.py & setup.cfg in a different repo...

> If the spec file is stored some other place, the spec file can be changed without this change being reflected in the history of the source code. So tracing back a build to a given (source code, spec file) pair becomes problematic or would require additional tooling. Maybe this is the trouble you though of? slightly_smiling_face

exactly, that's why I don't understand the hatred for "spec file in upstream" scenario

Reviewer: I see. Then I think this doc should explain these considerations. "Trouble" might not be self-explanatory enough to all readers :)

In general, my point is, that we should try to avoid using language that might be confusing to readers who didn't spend this much time studying the topic and we should go out of our way explaining the recommendations and decisions we took along the way. Writing "will save you a lot of trouble" doesn't meet any of this criteria.

Author: I'll elaborate, good point.

> will save you a lot of trouble. Alternatively, packit needs to have a way to

Reviewer: Shouldn't we capitalise `Packit`? Written like this it can be confusing for readers who are already not familiar with it.

Author: no strong preference from my side, I just capitalized all

Reviewer: :rocket:

* Script it yourself

> ### How packit treats `git commit`s

Reviewer: Hm, it's not clear why this topic is important. Could you explain more?

```suggestion
### How does Packit handle git commits?
```

Author: Maintainers need to know how patch files are going to be created out of the git commits and what packit exactly does to their spec file. Also, people who try source-git ask me this all the time.

Packit distinguishes between 2 types of commits:
1. Those that change code (usually pulled from upstream)
2. Changes to packaging (spec file, other sources, changes to .packit.yaml)

> Packit treats code changes as downstream patches so it creates those files

Reviewer: Not sure I understand....

Author: I dropped the paragraph and instead elaborated in the point 1
